OSDOCS-11434: update route config MicroShift (remove project) (#79312)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-nw-create-http-based-route.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-nw-creating-a-route_{context}"]
= Creating an HTTP-based route

A route allows you to host your application at a public URL. It can either be secure or unsecured, depending on the network security configuration of your application. An HTTP-based route is an unsecured route that uses the basic HTTP routing protocol and exposes a service on an unsecured application port.

The following procedure describes how to create a simple HTTP-based route to a web application, using the `hello-microshift` application as an example.

.Prerequisites
* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have access to your {microshift-short} cluster.
* You have a web application that exposes a port and a TCP endpoint listening for traffic on the port.

.Procedure

. Create a service called `hello-microshift` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc expose pod hello-microshift -n $namespace
----

. Create an unsecured route to the `hello-microshift` application by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=microshift.com $namespace
----

.Verification

> * To verify that the `route` resource that you created, run the following command:

Reviewer: Seems to keep the _<verb> by following_ pattern:
```suggestion
* Verify that the `route` resource was created by running the following command:
```
If not, I think you need something _To verify that the `route` resource that you created <does something>..._

```suggestion
* To verify that the `route` resource was created, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get routes -o yaml <name of resource> -n $namespace <1>
----
<1> In this example, the route is named `hello-microshift` and the namespace is named `hello-microshift`.

.Sample YAML definition of the created unsecured route:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: hello-microshift
  namespace: hello-microshift
spec:
  host: microshift.com <1>
  port:
    targetPort: 8080 <2>
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: hello-microshift
----
<1> Example hostname.

> <2> `targetPort` is the target port on pods that is selected by the service that this route points to.

Reviewer: Is there a simpler way to state this? It seems a bit word-salad, if you don't mind my saying.

```suggestion
<2> `targetPort` is the port on pods that your service uses.
```

Author: Yeah, it is. But it's accurate. Lemme chew on it a bit more.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-configuring-routes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-nw-creating-a-route_{context}"]
= Creating an HTTP-based route

A route allows you to host your application at a public URL. It can either be secure or unsecured, depending on the network security configuration of your application. An HTTP-based route is an unsecured route that uses the basic HTTP routing protocol and exposes a service on an unsecured application port.

The following procedure describes how to create a simple HTTP-based route to a web application, using the `hello-microshift` application as an example.

.Prerequisites
* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have root access to your {microshift-short} cluster.
* You have a web application that exposes a port and a TCP endpoint listening for traffic on the port.

.Procedure

> . Create a service called `hello-microshift` by running the following command:

Reviewer 2: The command below is creating the route, not the service. This will be a route that will take `www.example.com` as hostname. I think we may want to use `example.com` instead, and have this command in the next step.
Here you would need `oc expose pod hello-microshift -n $namespace`

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=www.example.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=www.example.com
```

----

. Create an unsecured route to the `hello-microshift` application by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=example.com

Author: @pacevedom WDYT?

> $ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=example.com

Reviewer 2: Good catch, yes we do need it

> $ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=example.com

Author: Don't know what that command looks like, made a guess. PTAL.

----

.Verification

* To verify that the `route` resource that you created, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get routes -o yaml <name of resource> <1>

Reviewer 3: same comment as above. Is namespace needed ?

Reviewer 2: Yes it is, routes is a namespaced resource

----
<1> In this example, the route is named `hello-microshift`.

.Sample YAML definition of the created unsecured route:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: route.openshift.io/v1
kind: Route
metadata:
  name: hello-microshift
spec:
  host: example.com
  port:
    targetPort: 8080 <1>
  to:
    kind: Service
    name: hello-microshift
----
<1> `targetPort` is the target port on pods that is selected by the service that this route points to.

+
[NOTE]
====
To display your default ingress domain, run the following command:
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}

Reviewer 3: running this line, I get a messages saying the server doesn't have a resource type "ingress"

`[redhat@microshift-dev ~]$ oc get ingresses.config/cluster -o jsonpath={.spec.domain}
error: the server doesn't have a resource type "ingresses"
`

Author: @pacevedom Hmm, do we need to make a CR?

Reviewer 2: This is not a resource MicroShift supports. We do support k8s ingresses but this example does not change any of them.
```$ oc api-resources | grep ingress
ingressclasses                                          networking.k8s.io/v1                false        IngressClass
ingresses                           ing                 networking.k8s.io/v1                true         Ingress```

Author: So how would we display the default ingress domain in microshift? Something like, `$ oc get pod -n openshift-ingress router-default-5b75594b4-228z7 -o jsonpath='{.status.podIPs}'`?

Reviewer 2: Ah now I understand. We dont have the api for the [ingress](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/rest_api/config_apis/ingress-config-openshift-io-v1.html), so we dont really have a default domain.
The certificate we use in the router for https includes this for the hostname: https://github.com/openshift/microshift/blob/main/pkg/cmd/init.go#L233
And each route may define their own hostname too.

//
// * microshift_networking/microshift-configuring-routes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-nw-creating-a-route_{context}"]
= Creating an HTTP-based route

A route allows you to host your application at a public URL. It can either be secure or unsecured, depending on the network security configuration of your application. An HTTP-based route is an unsecured route that uses the basic HTTP routing protocol and exposes a service on an unsecured application port.

The following procedure describes how to create a simple HTTP-based route to a web application, using the `hello-microshift` application as an example.

.Prerequisites
* You installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).
* You have root access to your {microshift-short} cluster.
* You have a web application that exposes a port and a TCP endpoint listening for traffic on the port.

.Procedure

. Create a service called `hello-microshift` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc expose pod hello-microshift -n $namespace
----

. Create an unsecured route to the `hello-microshift` application by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=microshift.com

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc expose svc/hello-microshift --hostname=microshift.com -n $namespace
```

----

.Verification

* To verify that the `route` resource that you created, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc get routes -o yaml <name of resource> -n hello-microshift <1>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc get routes -o yaml <name of resource> -n $namespace<1>
```
